We will tell you about agentic coding at Airbnb. So, not looking
at everything you can do with AIs, but specifically agenting coding.
And I'm Szczepan, joining with Mike. We're engineers at Developer Group
Platform at Airbnb, and we build tools for engineers and we integrate those
amazing AI technologies. And I've been building tools for engineers for
close to two decades. I've done open source. Maybe you use some of
that. And it's been, I'm amazed where this like GenAI evolution is taking
us. It's like, I've not seen such growth of productivity so far.
So, it's amazing. So at start of 2025, we set that vision.
We told us that this is how we explain to our leadership where
we headed. The way we like to do it, especially when we are
tackling some big things, big step function changes, is we
set up like a bold vision and then figure out how to work
backwards from there. This helps because, you know, if you only think about
incremental improvements, it's kind of hard to make a big change.
Now, we thought that this vision is bold. Now it's probably normative,
right? We've seen the progression of the models and the tooling. But that's
how we started earlier this year. S: And to put it into some
like images, we started with those like, you know, old ways of developing
engineers, like typing letters and numbers and producing lines of code
through what we've done a few years ago with copy pasting from ChatGPT
and, you know, your co-pilot, all good tools, we still use them. But that's
not where the magic happens. This is not this like paradigm shifting change
where an agent can, sorry, when a developer, not an agent,
when a human engineer can steer multiple agentic sessions and produce and
materialize code changes, right? S: That's our direction. The way we've
explained that to our leadership at start of 2025, we've used pair programming
analogy for this. I have a bias for this. I like pair programming.
I used to do a lot of that. I used to do pair
programming like entire full day from nine to five, from Monday to Friday,
pair programming all the way. I loved it. It formed me as an
engineer, is especially rewarding if you are pairing with an expert because
you learn so much. But at the same time, the classic pair programming
has also disadvantages, right? Sometimes it feels slow when you're making
like a small changes, back fixes. Sometimes it's also taxing, it's tiring
if you're like, you know, pairing entire day.
And in classic pair programming, you have a driver, an engineer who takes
the role of like holding the keyboard and like being tactical and navigator
who is strategic, who's going to see, you know, the forest,
not just the one tree, right? So using that analogy, agentic coding is
where a developer becomes this permanent navigator and it's steering that
agentic session that and an agent or your tool is materializing code changes.
That's where we headed. I think we're going to stick to that analogy
this year, like in the future. S: I don't know if we're going
to stick, especially if you paralyze and you have many of those agents.
But that's how we wrapped our heads around that, like at start of
2025. And we also gave some predictions, our leadership. And we were sandbagging
them a bit too much, I think, because we were not ambitious enough,
I guess, with those. We thought that like at the end of 2025,
like materializing code changes through an agentic session is going to be
maybe at like, you know, 20 to 40 % of like your PRs
or engineers that are using it on a daily basis. So I'm showing
you those predictions, but they are not very accurate because we are like
right now that we're like 64 %. So it's going faster.
It's amazing. It's interesting. Now, those are predictions and they are
useful, especially if you're explaining your vision to your leadership,
to your workforce. But those are not KRs. Those are not how we
measure success. And that's to measure the success, you need to apply a
different methodology. What works at Airbnb is we try to get this holistic
view of developer productivity. Things that like Vic was talking in his
keynote. So we look at developer sentiments. We look at the tool usage
and adoption. And we also look at the objective metrics from your engineering
system. S: You can look at PR velocity and number of other metrics. Right.
To give you a glimpse of what the data is showing us like
today and currently. So when we look at developer sentiments, they tell
us the AI is amazing. This is the best thing ever.
Like give me more. So last four surveys, that was like the top
voted engineering productivity improving tool. Another prediction for the
next six surveys is going to be the same. They're going to keep
telling us this is the best thing ever. Right. We also look at
the adoption of those AI tools. I'm specifically showing you the adoption
curve of agentic coding, and it amazes me.
I'm showing two curves: One is some of the tooling that we built
that wasn't agentic, with IDE plugins that aid engineers through this journey
but not yet agentic. Only around six, seven months ago, we started
going further into agentic coding. Certain models improved, certain tools
emerged on the market or in open source, so it was made possible
for us, and this is where we see this almost vertical line of
eager adoption. I've not seen that ever, building tools for engineers for
close to 20 years, such a growth, such eager adoption. S: We don't force
engineers to use it. It's a supplemental tool. You can use it to
augment your engineering or developer, but you don't have to. We don't force
you. We do all kinds of things to encourage,
to go on the road, to explain, to teach. We also try to
integrate it as seamlessly as possible so that you are one click away
from starting an agentic session, so those are the things you can do.
But it's amazing how the engineering community is adopting this. Also, we
look at the outputs of the engineering system, and there are a number
of caveats with that. This is just one of the metrics you can
look at. We don't use it as a measure of personal productivity.
We look at aggregate. We want to understand
if those AI tools have an effect on certain objective metrics that we
can view our engineering system. That's PR velocity. And I have a couple
of curves here. One is on AI-aided tools and also something that started
six to seven months ago, agentic coding, and we can see that there
is correlation of some metrics of the engineering system, the PR velocity,
and adoption and, like, leveraging those tools by our engineers. S: Okay,
so we talked about agentic coding. Let's define it.
We often talk about inner developer loop, so we have our developer loop.
At some point from that developer loop, an engineer would spec or prompt
and will start the agentic loop. An agentic loop is a loop because
it can call LLMs multiple times. It can call different tools, your MCPs,
multiple times. It will leverage guardrails. It will load the config.
By config, I mean, you know, your internal configuration, like system prompts,
but also things like, you know, your agents MD, cloud MD, your cursor
rules. Those are also, like, configurations. And I guess the key thing that
I want you to take away from it is that, like, an engineer
who is, like, leveraging agentic tool, like, you don't know how many...
You start your agentic session, but you don't know exactly how... What are
the prompts that the agentic tool will use when it calls LLMs. You don't
know exactly how many times it's going to call LLMs. You don't know
exactly what tools it's going to use. It can run builds or tests
or access your internal knowledge. It has this level of, let's call it,
autonomy. S: Okay, so that's why it's agentic. That's why we think about
it as a loop. At the end of that, there is output from
that loop. Typically, those are code changes that a human has to review.
Okay, that's important. It must be reviewed by a human engineer before the
PR is submitted. We also like to think about this agentic coding through,
you know, what is the model of learning and acquiring skill in agentic coding.
It is useful because it helps us shape that. It helps us understand, you
know, maybe some engineers are going too fast or too slow on that
journey, so that helps us make certain changes and work with our engineering
community at Airbnb. Just to go quickly through this, we've all started
with our first steps, and I think most of you are familiar with, like, level
two, using your agentic tool. And initially, when I remember using agentic
tool, I would approve every operation it does, and that's fine.
I learned. I got better at prompting. I got better at contextualizing.
At some point, I leveled up to where I feel more comfortable
putting my tool on auto-approve. Just keep going. Keep going. Show me the
diff. Okay? Now, I wouldn't say that I trust the AI.
I would say that I trust my skill in prompting and using the
tools so that I get value out of it without approving every operation.
Okay? But it takes time. It's a journey. Okay? And finally,
at level four, this is like Mike, this is me. S: We're integrating
those tools. We're making that transformation at your workplace.
Some of you probably are working in your dev infra teams,
building MCPs, integrating those tools, contributing to open source. That's
beautiful. Okay. I guess the point I'm trying to make, humans are still
needed. They need to review the outputs from the AI before the PR
is submitted for another human to review. I think that you want to
give time to engineers to adopt, and they will have different pace in
acquiring this skill and getting to really high proficiency.
Getting too fast to putting your tool on auto-approve is not great.
What happens is an engineer may create very large PRs that they don't
review fully. They don't actually understand and review every single line
of code to fully understand. They may not review test code as eagerly
as the production code. This is what I keep telling at conferences, like
make sure your test code is of high quality as much as your
production code. Refactor your tests, keep them clean and maintainable.
Another thing, to me, what's also important in understanding those changes
that are coming from your agentic tool is pushing back on the tool.
S: You don't trust it. If something feels suspicious, because I don't think
that it works this way. Why? You ask it, right? Like, why did
you do this in line 120, right? And then your agentic tool will
be very confident and will explain you why, right? But after a couple
of rounds, and they're like, no, but like, tell me why, you know, you
get to this very satisfying moment where the agentic tool gives up and
say, oh, yeah, you're right. Okay, I'm sorry. I was wrong.
Let's fix it, right? So that's like really important. Yeah. And I think
that this, at some point, we are able to paralyze those workloads, okay?
And I remember like my journey. So I would first when I was
able to, when I felt confident to put my tool on auto-approve, yeah, I
didn't actually start another coding task, right? I would review the design
docs, I would create a design doc on the side.
But at some point, I got more confident and I would have like
multiple of those workspaces. Each workspace would have a agentic session,
it will be doing certain coding tasks for me.
There are some power users at Airbnb that will have like five parallel
workspaces at the same time, each building S: Another technical prototype
of some sort, like pandemonium a little bit, right? Like in the keynote.
But this is where the magic happens and we can multiply productivity.
So we'll see what the, maybe the future engineer will not be good
at flow, he's gonna just be very good at context switching, that's gonna
be the main thing we need to learn, right? One of the things
that has worked for us really well is we built tech at Airbnb
that helps us have those sandbox environments, workspaces. It's called AirDev
workspace. We presented this a few years ago at this conference, so there's
a YouTube video on this. Because look, if you're parallelizing those agentic
sessions, I mean, there's a way to do it on your laptop,
on one machine, that like you can use Git work trees,
there are ways to do it, there's some open source tech that you
can use. But we don't recommend it. I think that like when you
can have sandboxed environments, like separate machines in the cloud,
that is gonna be much better, it's gonna be more consistent,
more reliable, and we're happy that we can leverage that at Airbnb because
we built some tech for that. S: And I think my one takeaway
that I want you to take from it is that like your agentic
tool is not enough, you will have to have a lot of tech
around it. Like you need to have a tech
for your remote IDs, for your sandbox environments, and you need to have
a really good code review tools and culture around that because who knows,
maybe software engineering of the future is like all,
it's all code review, right? That's all we do, right? I'm okay with
that. Yeah, and I think that was my last slide. I'm gonna give you
Mike now, and Mike will go deeper on things, I promise, right? Take it from
here. Mike Hey folks, wow, what an opening. So one, before we get
to my actual slides, I just wanna say I can't believe any of
this works. I can't believe that any of this made it easier, but AI allows
people like me, I'm a college dropout, I did Android for 10 years, I've
recently switched to dev platform, it allows me to keep up with people
like Chapan that's been, like you said, doing this for 20 years and
running circles around me previously. So game on, I'm keeping up now.
So first, I wanna echo something that my VP said. We need to
meet developers where they are. It's hard enough for all of us to
learn agentic coding and AI, it's even more difficult if someone tells you,
hey, you have to do it this way in this new tool and
really just kick your legs out from under you.
So in Q1 2025, I think this is when that big change happened.
We all were learning a new way to code. Coding agents started to
appear in CLI and IDEs, and this was industry-wide. M: It didn't matter
if you're a infra engineer, front-end, back-end, maybe you were not even
an engineer, but this really affected our whole industry and changed how
we all do our job day to day.
I wanted to now talk about what a typical engineer looks like at
Airbnb. And plot twist, we don't have one typical engineer at Airbnb.
We're a company in our 17th year, and we're across the stack.
Even where our developer environments are are not consistent. 60% of our
engineers like working in those remote workspaces that Chupan talked about.
40%, like me, enjoy working locally and love their local developer experience.
Similar, IDE or CLI. Confession, I don't know how to do Git from
the command line, so I'm squarely in the IDE camp. I love IntelliJ, I've
always loved it, and it does the things that I need.
We have other engineers that love Vim, that love doing things from the
command line, and we also support them and allow them to code in
the way that they feel comfortable. Languages are across the board.
We use TypeScript, Java, Kotlin, Python, Go, Swift. I wrote my first Go
and TypeScript classes with the help of AI at Airbnb, and this is
one of those moments where I can keep up and start transitioning to
platforms where maybe I didn't have the comfort to do before.
M: Similar, as AI started proliferating through Airbnb, it happened in multiple
ways, and I'll dive into each of them.
For one thing, we had IDE plugins. Think of it as almost like
a cursor plugin that we had for VS Code, IntelliJ, and Xcode.
But now, there were all of these open source tools that started coming
along. And an issue that my team was having was, people would report
bugs, and we needed a lot of context. It would always be, where
did you run the tool? What slash commands did you have? What config did
you use? There was too much split in how we were doing things.
It was different, and we sort of had to analyze, take a step
back, and figure out what our strategy is going to be going forward.
Our first strategy that we analyzed was IDE first. Like I said,
we had these IDE plugins. They had beautiful UX. They had tight integration
with current contacts. They can see what tabs you had open, code that's
been edited, your local changes. And we also had this really tight integration
with Airbnb knowledge. The one thing we had over the market is we
had a rack pipeline. M: We had it integrated tightly with our IDE
plugins, and we have Airbnb knowledge. So it's able to search an index,
rack pipeline, and for a certain term, give me sources, and give me
some information that was Airbnb specific. And that was a great edge at
first. But then we started seeing the other side of it as agentic
tools started coming along, all of these CLI tools, the AIDER, OpenHands,
Gemini, CloudCode, Codex. And they all had these agentic orchestrations
that could do multiple steps at once. It wasn't just me asking a
question and getting response back. It wasn't just chat. Now it was actually
calling tools, calling multiple tools, making decisions, and being able
to interface by itself without me constantly copying and pasting back from
that kind of like level one slides that we saw.
Okay, let's try a new strategy. This time, let's try CLI first.
It's powerful. It gives you the best answers. It has the most amount
of tools. It can actually run anywhere. A CLI is a terminal app.
It's easier to install in these workspaces or even environments you might
not have UIs. But unfortunately, there's no Airbnb awareness. M: A lot of
our engineers love these tools and love them on side projects and use
them at home and kept coming in and saying, hey, why aren't we
using X? Why aren't we using Y? It's great at home.
We analyzed it and it just didn't do as well as we expected
compared to our tools. It was kind of a, some things were great,
but it didn't know our repos. It didn't know our design patterns.
It was great for the side projects, not really great for giant mono repos
and where most of our engineers were coding.
So we wanted those quality of answers that were good.
We wanted to have our Airbnb knowledge and we took a step back
and realized that we need to invest more heavily in the system.
Cat's out of the bag. We have momentum going and let's actually spin
up a team. So before we talk about spinning up the team,
I just want to say that we scaled agentic usage to 60%
of PR authors in the last year. Again, I can't believe this worked.
I can't believe how quickly folks adopted it. And I can't believe how
many people like me would probably quit if we took these tools away
from people. M: So we started a DevAI team. We created this core
team and a cross-functional working group to bring parity to all of the
source, to all of our services. We wanted the same great experience whether
you're an IDE or you're in the CLI. We also started creating a
vibrant community. This is everything from hackathons to giving talks to
having this working group of 30 folks that can then go back to
their teams and kind of have this champion program of this is spinning
up a new environment. This is like when we spun up mobile and
we just started over. It all needs to be built from the ground
up. So we thought about it. We're a small team. We have four
engineers. We have some product support. And what are we going to focus
on? What is going to be most high impact? So we took a
bet on three things. First, we wanted to bring agents to Airbnb.
Actually, to be honest, our leadership wanted us to bring agents to Airbnb.
This was one of those Friday night emails of, hey, I'm using cursor
externally. It's great. How come our internal stuff isn't great? M: When
can we have agents here? So we made a team. We figured out
a way and kind of had a path forward to bringing these agents
internally, these external tools that people like to use, whether open source
or not. The other side of it is we had to bring Airbnb
to agents. We not only had to bring the agents in,
but if there was Airbnb awareness, we had to somehow bind this to
these agents and figure out a way to not train models.
We're small. You saw it as a team of seven people.
And finally, there was this new standard that came out called MCP.
For those that aren't familiar with it, think of it as REST for
LLMs. It's some protocol, some way for you to wrap your code and
give it access so that LLMs can call those tools. So let's start
from the top, bringing agents to Airbnb. There's all these CLI tools like
Aider, OpenHands, CloudCode, Codex, Gemini, and they're all kind of, you
know, some of them were great three months ago. Tomorrow may be a different
one will be great. And it moves really fast.
The quality of answers here is top of market. M: They can work
in remote environments. And the speed to find a solution was faster for
me and many of my coworkers than what we had internally.
So we wanted a safe and simple way to adopt new CLI tools. And we did
this by creating our wrapper. We created an abstraction that we called Airchat.
And Airchat was an abstraction that allowed us to have multiple engines
for us to quickly deploy and distribute these agents to engineer machines.
If someone had Airchat installed, single command install, we'd be able to
automatically update it as codex came out or Gemini came out,
or if certain models started being used within some of these tools.
So this gave us a single entry point that we can continue to
invest in. Really small, but kind of like that glacier that you see
underneath of us being able to build functionality into it.
So now that we have this management deployment for agents, we moved on
to MCP. We went all in very early on MCP.
By that, I mean, I think my third week of being on a
new team in a new org, I said, let's go with this crazy
standard MCP that came out yesterday. M: I got a lot of confused
faces, but at the same time, as we started looking through the standards
and what they're doing, it really aligned closely to what we were already
doing at Airbnb. We already had tool calling. We were already using tool
APIs from the LLM providers and their SDKs. So what we realized is
that this standard is very close to what we're already doing.
But because it's a standard, we will be able to publish and use
our tools with clients that weren't just developed internally.
So we kind of went down this path of first, we love our
IDE tools. I love IntelliJ. We exposed our favorite IDE tools,
favorite functionality in an MCP server. So now we can use those same
tools, even if we're working in a CLI.
The other side of it is we created MCP clients, way to interface
with tools inside of our IDE plugins. And finally, we created a configuration
and syncing mechanism within Airchat, within our Airchat CLI seamless so
that we can now distribute these MCP servers and configure them and make
sure that they're working correctly. It grew and grew and grew.
And this is another one of those like it's snowballing. M: We can't
stop it even if we want it to at this point.
Teams started contributing all over. Some teams started contributing by
pulling in MCP servers or Republican open source. Others started building
MCP servers for analytics platforms and CI and all of these internal tools
that we couldn't, you know, you wouldn't be able to find those servers
publicly. We now have over a dozen MCP servers internally that we're able
to bind to all of our different clients.
Back to my team, back to the core team.
We continue to invest now in areas that we can speed up this
MCP ecosystem. One of them is auth. Auth, no one likes to deal
with. So we found this automatic way, gave you a pattern,
some kind of framework that you can create MCP hosted MCP servers and
we will inject your user auth into it. We also made sure to
go through security. So now we have a paved path. As long as
you do it in this way, you don't have to have a two
week review with our security or even though this is new,
we now have a way that is approved and consistent that everyone can
build. We also created project templates. M: This helped. We have a culture
of experimentation. We do a lot of hackathons and this allowed teams to
experiment and build very cheaply MCP servers or clients around these MCP
servers so they can iterate on them. We made it simple to install,
almost like a homebrew install, one command and boom, your MCP servers either
deployed or locally as a standard IO tool.
And finally, this is something new that we're now doing. We're building
SDKs for building clients. We have a ton of MCP servers.
At first we thought we would only have CLI and IDEs,
but now we're starting to see people want to build agentic apps for
everything. They want to integrate them into their web apps. They want to
be building other desktop apps for it. So now we're standardizing on an
SDK, taking the work of what we've learned the last nine months and
now making into a framework that is more declarative for folks to be
able to build their own clients that support MCP and support agentic orchestrators.
Little preview of our Airchat. This is our IDE plugin and this is
when it was naive. It was just a chat app. M: You can
ask it a question. You can get a response back. Looks very similar
to most of these IDE plugins. So we wanted to bring agents inside
of the IDE. Now that we have Airchat CLI, now we've brought in
open source, folks are like, hold on, I want this good experience in
IntelliJ, but can you make the answers as good as they are in
CLI? Sure. We did research. We did research. We looked around and there
was this great blog post called Effective Agents by Anthropic and it had
a lot of the patterns that we were trying to standardize on and
kind of think about. It gave us a shape. The shape we went
with is that you have some orchestrator. The orchestrator lets you register
many agents. An agent is a very large term. It sounds like it's
going to be something complex. Effectively, an agent is a prompt and a
list of tools that the agent can call along with a way to
actually call an LLM. So we built this structure where each agent can
delegate to another agent. You know, you can have a planning,
a coding, and a validation agent. You can chain them together.
M: And it was starting to come along. It's a new product.
We don't have the muscle and it didn't go as planned.
AI moves way too fast. We were still planning, figuring out what we
were going to do that existed in the market and the market now
is five steps ahead of us. It wasn't going to work.
Our team is too small and we don't have the muscle to be
building these agents. So instead, can't beat them, join them. We pivoted
and instead delegated to our Airchat CLI, to this thing that can call
other agents and have this as a unidirectional data flow and a single
responsibility. Our agent now is a CLI agent, but we have a thin
shim above it that allows us to interface from other applications or other
services. So let's go to our philosophy. We don't want to reinvent the
wheel. I'm a big proponent of open source. Again, I came from mobile. I
came from Android community and everything. We had more open source than
we had things that Google gave us. We also don't want to confuse
our users. We don't want to keep churn and
switching from one tool to another and being like, this is better,
this is better. M: Figure out what your requirements are.
We realize what our users use. We talk to them and we try
to stick to something unless there's a step function improvement as something
new comes out. But things that we do want to do,
we want to have the ability to continue conversations from one thing to
another. So it's nice to kind of decouple your clients from the engines,
your session, persistence, and anything else where a user might want to
move from one thing to another. So maybe I want to start a
conversation in a CLI and it gets too complicated. I then want to
be able to move to my IDE and see it within that Airchat panel as
well. So decouple what you can. Good development practices still apply.
The AI is not making your practices for you.
But what we did want to do is focus on having the same
feature set across the board, and then doing additive improvements that
didn't exist anywhere else. So things like diff viewers inside of IntelliJ,
things like menus for interaction that users can click with shortcuts that
can highlight and do things, and just generally nicer rendering components.
M: Not everyone likes looking at a CLI that's scrolling past them.
You know, we don't all live in the Matrix. Some of us like
UIs. So now I kind of want to talk about how we brought
this Airbnb knowledge to agents. So now we have our CLI,
we have our agents, it has our unidirectional data flow, but that agent
doesn't know anything about Airbnb. And I mentioned before, we had this
rack pipeline and a REST endpoint where I can try to predict and
say, hey, this part of the user prompt, let me send this to
the search, and it would try to guess what search results I need. It
was one shot, it was linear. This is all pre-agentic, and it wasn't
something that worked well in this agent mode. So while we could have
just exposed this and figured out a way to hack it in and, you
know, like do this at the network layer, we tried to reimagine how
knowledge bases should work. The way I think about it is tool calling
is all you need. The world has moved. M: If I was given
this talk last year, I may have told you that we would be
fine-tuning, we would be training our own model, and we'd be investing in
having the model actually have the Airbnb knowledge.
Some of our friends at other companies tried going down that direction,
and it's expensive, and it doesn't quite work out well.
My take is tool calling is all you need.
It's all about the tools that you give access to your agent.
So we re-architected this pipeline that was a single shot to instead be
wrapped in an MCP server, and MCP tools, and descriptions of how this
endpoint works. So now the LLM is able to be the navigator.
It's able to say, hey, could you call your knowledge base and get
me information about some repo? And if it didn't like that answer,
it can search based on other terms. We sort of for free got
agentic search and deep research by just giving it an endpoint where it
can get information about what we have at Airbnb. So even things like how
do I set up an S3 resource? It wasn't a generic how you
set it up. It was how do you do this at Airbnb using
our particular tools? This was huge for us. M: So the last thing
I want to go over is lessons, kind of like these war stories
of what do we learn? What do we forget? What do we wish
we did different? I split them into six categories.
First, it takes a village. This is too huge. This is not bringing
a new CI to your company. You get a few experts,
you put them in a dark room, and they're just going to iterate
on it for a year and be able to keep up.
This is moving too fast. The scope is too large, and the surfaces
are something that's going to touch most aspects of software development.
And it's going to take everyone. Don't think that you're going to be
able to solve this yourself. Empower your local experts. They're the ones
that are going to spread the knowledge. We've had so many talks and
hackathon presentations and documents written and slash commands made by
the folks that are not on this core team. And now it feels
more like an ecosystem that I'm contributing to and others are and not
just something that our team owns. This one was hard for me.
Don't call CLI an underdog. M: Like I said, I can't even do
Git from the command line. But I can do Git when I use
agentic tools. And maybe that's a little overusing agentic tools, but that's
where I am. And those kind of little helpers, that kind of pair
programming with it, lets me keep up with people that can think in
CLIs. But at the same time, the CLIs have gotten so good at
this point that we need to consider them. And we need to at
least show our coworkers that maybe we're not CLI first, that it is
a surface that they would be comfortable with. Today, I can say that
I haven't used an IDE in months. I've coded across multiple languages. And
now I'm one of these super cool CLI developers that doesn't need an
IDE. Caveat, I'm doing it through agents, but at the same time, I'm
able to debug. I'm able to ask for information. I'm able to do
all the things that I used to use my IDE as a crutch
for. And we saw something really interesting. 80% of our engineers feel
the way that I do. It's not that our adoption tanked in IDE
usage. It's that our adoption of CLI agent tools skyrocketed. M: This was
almost hockey stick growth. And more and more folks started preferring CLIs
and preferring multiple tabs open. And having this experience that felt
like it wasn't just good enough. It was perfect for what they were
trying to do. The next lesson is remove barriers. Make it easy to
start an agentic session with a single click. Put it where your developers
are. This is the whole meet your developers where they are.
Don't do too much at once. We considered, maybe for a few days, gabbing
all of our IntelliJ users move over to VS Code because there's all
these agentic tools in VS Code and all these vendors that can do
it. And that lasted for a few days before I had to fear
for my life that someone would come after me.
It doesn't work. People that love IntelliJ love IntelliJ. People that love
VS Code love VS Code. People that want to use Emacs love that
as well for some reason. And yeah, you just kind of remove those
barriers and put the tools where they are. And if you're going to
make a new surface, make it as easy as you can.
M: Single command. We run Airchat. It's pre-installed. And boom, you're
in your flow. You're in your agentic coding session. But you do have
to standardize. The market moves fast, but don't just hop on every new
trend as it comes along. You'll notice it. You'll notice what the industry
is starting to stabilize on. To be honest, most decisions we made I
think would have been much easier six months down the line.
So what you should think about is, is it worth investment for you
to be an early adopter before the market starts to stabilize a little
bit and pick which one of these tools is the one that you
should be using. Obviously measure all the things. It's hard. Some of it
is quantitative, some of it is qualitative. There's companies like DX that
are starting to do integrations with even agentic tools. So that's something
to consider of. How will you measure productivity? A lot of the ways
we've always measured productivity still holds through for agents, but I
think we have a little bit of work to do here of figuring
out what the impact of all of this is and how well it's
working. M: And finally, don't drop your standards for AI.
I'm one of those non-believers. This is all going to be slop.
This is all going to be vibe coding. This is going to be
worse than what I can write by hand. And when I was using
GPT 3.5, that was true. I personally got lapped by agentic coding. Now,
I can't speak for you. You may still be able to do better
than some of these tools do. But if you're not and you can't,
you now have something that can get you to parity with folks that
were doing things that you may have not felt was feasible.
So I just want to wrap it up and say thank you.
I'm Mike. This is Szczepan. And we've had an incredible time both being
here and spinning out agentic coding at Airbnb.